January 20, 2022 -- [[DeepMind]] (Really, Google Research) (4mo before [[PaLM]], 8mo before [[ChatGPT]])
Paper: [LaMBDA: Language Models for Dialog Applications](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.08239) 
Includes authors like [[Quoc Le]], [[Noam Shazeer]], Daniel De Freitas (cofounder @ [[CharacterAI]])

A small family of models, with the largest being a 137B parameter model pre-trained on 1.56T tokens of public dialog data and finetuned on additional data.
The bit about filtering candidate responses using a LaMBDA ((?)) classifier fine-tuned with a small amount of data is pretty interesting. I wonder how often such things are used as part of a decoding strategy!

Abstract
> We present LaMDA: Language Models for Dialog Applications. LaMDA is a ==family of Transformer-based neural language models specialized for dialog==, which have ==up to 137B parameters== and are ==pre-trained on 1.56T words of public dialog data and web text==. While model scaling alone can improve quality, it shows less improvements on safety and factual grounding. We demonstrate that ==fine-tuning with annotated data and enabling the model to consult external knowledge sources can lead to significant improvements towards the two key challenges of safety and factual grounding==. The first challenge, safety, involves ensuring that the model's responses are consistent with a set of human values, such as preventing harmful suggestions and unfair bias. We quantify safety using a metric based on an illustrative set of human values, and we find that ==filtering candidate responses using a LaMDA classifier fine-tuned with a small amount of crowdworker-annotated data offers a promising approach to improving model safety==. The second challenge, factual grounding, involves enabling the model to consult external knowledge sources, such as an information retrieval system, a language translator, and a calculator. We quantify factuality using a groundedness metric, and we find that our approach enables the model to generate responses grounded in known sources, rather than responses that merely sound plausible. Finally, we explore the use of LaMDA in the domains of education and content recommendations, and analyze their helpfulness and role consistency.