




[Doug Bernauer Interview on Sourcery](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEwZzC0H-lA&t=102s) (May 31, 2024)

- Late 30s: Neutron discovered and measured
- 40s: [[Chicago Pile Reactor]] put together by Enrico Fermi in the US... Weapons program is developed
- 50s: The US (Eisenhower) wants to make use of nuclear technology to make clean power, the [[Atoms for Peace]] program... the US develops submarine power reactors (there's a decent documentary on that). The navy commits to making a reactor for the first time ever, so you have to develop shielding so people can be close by... tested a bunch of materials, taking gamma neutron sources and put it through materials, and found out how much you needed to attenuate it. They built the Nautilus submarine, which went underneath the North Pole. The 50s is the most excited. Under Strauss, the atomic energy commissioner at the time, they made a 5 year program: "This works, you can do this amazing voyage under the north pole! Let's use it to make huge amounts of clean power on our grids!"
	- Five year plan had 5 different designs of reactor programs to be build in 5 years: Whichever type gets built quickest and looks the most scalable, we'll just scale it and put it all over the US and make as many of them as we can! All five were done within 5 years. The fastest was 2.5 years... it was a [[Light Water Reactor]], which is why we have ~93 operating GW-scale LWRs, based on that design from that moment in time, way back when!
	- These early reactors last a couple of decades; they're successes.
- 60s: We deploy a whole bunch of reactors. The [[High Temperature Gas Reactor|HTGR]] category is developed in the 60s, which is kind of the last type of reactor developed, and where [[Tri-Structural Isotropic Fuel|TRISO]] comes from.
- 70s/80s: Scaling more reactors
- 80s: Building them still, but there's an anti-nuclear sentiment building throughout the 70s/80s... an energy crisis in the 70s leads to the creating of the [[United States Department of Energy|DoE]], and the [[Atomic Energy Commission]] is abolished and sort of becomes the [[Nuclear Regulatory Commission]] (NRC) (and the Energy Research and Development Administration, now part of the DoE) in the mid 1970s... from that point forward, the designs we have from before that point... are getting build, and then the rate drops dramatically.
- 90s: Almost nothing is built after the 90s in the US.
- 2020s: Things have now turned around completely as far as public sentiment goes. In the 80s, we were just discovering that climate change was a thing... by the time we got into the 90s and Al Gore took up that cause, it became center stage in the US. By the 2000s, it became a policy point, and people began to think about what the future would look like if we priced things to try to make incentives to be a clean world. Now, after the 2010s, we're at a position where the public were so in favor of nuclear technology again that in... 2016, advanced nuclear became a bipartisan supported issue in Congress. Everyone is getting behind Nuclear, and we've recently had movies like Oppenheimer and other things that make us recognize the importance of energy independence and resilience, and people are excited about nuclear technology again. The entrepreneurs and technologists in Nuclear are way behind, though; we can't move as fast as the public would want us to, for so many reasons. "==There's no new nuclear design that has been fueled in the US in the last 50 years.==" Some things have happened outside the US, and there have been some builds in the US, but they're new builds of old designs. To a large degree... we've lost that muscle, because we haven't done it. There's been atrophying of the system... The NRC doesn't have rules that are tuned to innovation, but they think about it; they've been modernizing: NEIMA (Nuclear Energy Industry Modernization Act) in 2019 was amongst those. I think the NRC can be an effective regulator and can allow for innovation, because every discussion Doug has had with them has left him thinking that they are dedicated and intelligent individuals who want to see Nuclear built, and to make sure that it's safe. For a long time, though, there haven't been customers and great products, and the combination of these two things just haven't been coming to the NRC, in the past, so the way Doug sees it, the NRC aren't really blocking things: How can you expect a regulator to regulate ahead of innovation that's not even happening? They need us to work together and talk about the future. A long period of time has passed, of course, and computers have gotten very good, so it's easy to allow for analysis paralysis to set in, where you can model things in amazing detail... it's easy to get lost in that world and play with every lever, and in many industries we've forgotten how to build/manufacture. There's not anything to limit your learning by doing... in nuclear, we can do that through national labs, but there isn't a process developed for this today either... there's a big gap. Public support is important but could fade if we don't deliver quickly, and expectations need to be set as to what is reasonably achievable for nuclear companies. Radiant's job is to ... make commitments on what we can deliver. A fuel test in 2026; a year and a half to solve this 50 years of no reactor, and others are going to do the same thing in the same year. It won't even be just us, it will be several different entities, and that will happen very quickly. Not allow schedules to slip, not allow costs to increase... 

Fukushima put a bucket of cold ice on the big... GW-class reactors. After that, there's been a big push  for microreactors, small modular reactors. The key thing to know... all these so-called advanced reactors are all 1950s, 1960s, 1970s designs that have been built/developed in the past. Every reactor in development today is INHERENTLY SAFE, where you aren't relying on billy pressing a button or the laws of physics, you're relying on the laws of physics: gravity, natural heat transfer, etc.
- Has to do with the constituents and some of the design of the reactor
- When you have a fuel that has a silicon carbide coating, retains the fission products and doesn't melt.... That's a key enabler of these passive designs.
- Who wants to pay $20B to built a GW scale reactor? This is why we only built the [[Vogtle Electric Generating Plant|Vogtle]] in a regulated market (rate payers backstopped)... 
- The demand coming in from remote communities, defense community, space... and then, in the last few years, AI, hyperscalers taking energy demand.
- If you look at the advanced reactors... if you throw a dart at the dartboard, there's a 70-80% chance they're using [[Tri-Structural Isotropic Fuel|TRISO]] fuel. It was codified/understood under a big DoE program that led to the [[Nuclear Regulatory Commission|NRC]]... designated it as "functional containment" (a very specific meaning), so instead of a big concrete dome, you've got billions of these small ceramic pressure vessels, so you discretize all this. Many advanced reactor developers are using this fuel. But it turns out that these reactors...don't turn on without fuel. 
	- The largest production facility in the US for TRISO is still very small.
	- That was Kurt's mission @ [[Standard Nuclear]], delivering this fuel at industrial scale.
	- Kurt worked at [[Ultra Safe Nuclear Corporation]]... and he thought at the time that he wanted the right level on control for doing what I wanted to do, and they had some capital. It was primarily backed by Richard Halls Helms, an ex-CIA patriot. He was a believer and patriot, had invested in other companies... poured a lot of resources (~$140M) in that copmany. 
- That company was making fuel, Kurt was making fuel there. 


A normal grid-scale reactor is 1000MW/1GW of power, which is enough for 1 million homes.
A lot of nuclear companies are working on [[Small Modular Reactor|SMR]]s, which are about 20MW-300MW or so, and are meant to be built faster, which can be good for project finance.
And going down another size... 10MW-ish reactors, you can call these [[Microreactor]] (1-20MWe), which often still have a couple of years of constructor. Still have to dig a hole
And Radiant is a microreactor down at 1MW, enough power for 1000 homes, we can mass-produce in a factory, deliver to site, and no infrastructure outside of a 35 foot fence line. So we're working on a completely different technology, it's a small unit, and when a customer operates it, they can tell it to be on or off and have control. You can turn it off and tell us (Radiant) to come pick it up. 


--------------------



Nuclear has been burdened with extreme safety/regulatory load, in the aftermath of Three Mile Island, Chernobyl, etc. As a result of that, the supply chain and talent have atrophied for the industry. What was costing about $1000/KW to build in the US in the 60s is how costing 10x that much. It's pretty staggering; it ***was*** a cheap energy source in the 60s and 70s, and that was true in the US/France/Sweden, but in 2010+, it's become one of the most expensive and troublesome power sources to build globally. Public sentiment for Nuclear now is at decades-long highs. People realize it's safe, there are many active Nuclear power plants in the west, etc. And another catalyst in Europe especially is the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and the knock-on effects of Energy security that it had. Countries like the UK and France, having said originally that they were going to decom many of their Nuclear power plants are exercising a life extension program to get more out of them. The most aggressive regime change is in the US, though; Trump admin has been very bullish on Nuclear power, which was captured clearly in EOs issued in Spring 2025, which reduced some of the bureaucratic burden on Reactors, said they were going to resupply the entire nuclear supply chain in the US, and have been inking remarkable deals. Signed an $80B deal with Westinghouse to build more Nuclear reactors in the USA. Some people have been calling this a Nuclear Renaissance. It's safer even than Wind power, it's clean, it's base load energy, and should be highly deployable.

We were looking at Nuclear power, and was convinced that... we weren't goin to invest in a Reactor startup...  the shibboleth of "capital intensity, regulatory uncertainty, slow learning rates, broken fuel supply chain..." it felt too difficult. But he met Doug Bernauer and the team at Radiant, which changed his mind on investing in reactors. Reasons:
1. Rather than building a big piece of energy infrastructure, they're building an energy product.
	1. Radiant has made design choices very interesting to a specific customer base that want rapidly deployable power, and in most cases the only alternative is a diesel generator, which are cumbersome, dirty, and need refuel. Radiant's end customers are paying sometimes hundreds of dollars per gallon to get diesel to these remote locations where they need power.
	2. Radiant's Kaleidos (1MW, portable, meltdown proof reactor that needs refueling once every 3-5 years) is an amazing product that can be offered at competitive price to this niche market.


In essence... in a way that no one else... in Nuclear was doing, they were thinking about product market fit. 
The second reason is Doug itself, and the team they've built.



